

			   DNET V2.10 UNIX SIDE

			   BSD4.2/4.3 compatible

	Special note this release: default is to run in 7 bit mode (which
	uses a special 6 bit encoding to encode binary data).  The -m0
	option has been added for those who can run over full 8 bit nets.

	DNET (c)Copyright 1987-1989 Matthew Dillon, All Rights Reserved

	Matthew Dillon
	891 Regal Rd
	Berkeley, Ca. 94708
	USA

	...!ihnp4!ucbvax!dillon 	USENET
	dillon@ucbvax.Berkeley.edu	ARPANET
	ucbvax.berkeley.edu pub/amiga	ARPANET-FTP

				UNIX SETUP

	The directory structure must remain intact.  simply say MAKE
	in the main directory and it ought to compile.	There might be
	minor problems depending on how compatible your UNIX is with
	BSD4.3 UNIX ..	I have successfully compiled DNet on the following
	machines:

		    Dec Vax 7xx
		    Sun 3
		    Sequent

	(1) Create a directory.  For example, ~/.DNET   WARNING!  This
	    directory must be on a local partition.  DNET uses a unix
	    domain socket and these do not work over network fileservers.

	(2) Modify your .cshrc to add the following line:

	    setenv DNETDIR  ~/.DNET/

	    (or wherever you put it.  NOTE! You MUST HAVE THE TRAILING
	     SLASH!)

	(3) All binaries are usually kept in dnet.unix/bin, add this
	    directory to your path (in your .cshrc) so DNet can find
	    the clients.

	(4) Place the file 'dnet.servers' in $DNETDIR.  Modify the file
	    according to your home directory and where you have put the
	    servers (usually in dnet.unix/bin).  USE ABSOLUTE PATHS,
	    DNET.SERVERS DOES NOT UNDERSTAND ~.

	NOTE: You may want to chmod $DNETDIR 700 to disallow any
	unauthorized access to the network.


			     DIALING UP FROM AN AMIGA

	Follow the installation instructions for the Amiga side.  When
	you dial up the UNIX system you will eventually get a prompt.
	NOTE!  DNET normally uses 7 bit - even parity for dialing up,
	then switches to 8 bit no parity for the protocol.  Sometimes
	the modem or port selector will switch into 7 bit + parity mode
	and NOT SWITCH OUT.  For this reason, you might want to use the
	-8 option for the Amiga side of DNET (read the docs in the Amiga
	section).

	You may have to force parity before running DNet.  To force parity
	to even use (and do this only if running the -Z2 option from the
	Amiga side dnet):	      THIS IS NOT NORMALLY DONE.

	% stty -odd

	From the DNET window's CSH prompt, start the protocol with:

	% dnet

	That was easy.	The DNet window should go away and an FTERM window
	should open.  This does not mean success!  If the FTERM window
	closes again with the message "unable to connect", it was unable
	to connect.  There are several possibilities:

	(a) You do not have an 8 bit connection from your amiga to the
	    UNIX host (DNet must be able to send and receive all 256
	    character codes).

	(b) You did not setup the DNETDIR enviroment variable properly

	(c) You did not copy dnet.servers into $DNETIDR

	(d) The absolute file path in dnet.servers for server #8192 (that
	    FTerm tires to connect to) is not correct.

				    KILLING DNET

	In most cases simply turning off the modem will suffice.  You can
	kill dnet more cleanly with the following sequence:

	(1) From an Amiga CLI, run the QuitDnet command.  This will kill
	    the packet protocol and cause the remote DNet to exit.  It
	    will then break the local DNet.

	    You should get the original (small) DNet window and the
	    original login shell. If you get the DNet window but not the
	    shell (you can't type), the protocol may still be running on
	    the other end, in which case it didn't work for some unknown
	    reason.  Restart the protocol w/ the appropriate menu option
	    and try 'quitdnet' again.

	(3) logout normally and close the DNet window.  Turn off your
	    modem.

	    If the kill sequence in (2) does not work, you can simply
	    hangup the line.

			     HANGING SERVER PROCESSES

	The UNIX side servers are normally left running when the protocol
	dies.  These are very very very small and take 0 CPU (they are
	simply waiting for connections).  These servers will still be
	there when you log in again and DNet will use them.

	You can kill UNIX side servers at any time.

	Many of the same clients and servers exist on the UNIX end as
	on the Amiga end.  The UNIX end is missing several.  The UNIX
	end implements two commands called dsoc and draw which can be
	used to connect to (in cooked or raw tty mode) specific servers
	(by port #) on the Amiga side.  For example, to connect to the
	printer server on the amiga side:

	% dsoc 8198
	This is a test
	^D
	%

	Dumps to PRT: on the Amiga "This is a test"  Gee Wiz!

				SECURITY W/ UNIX

	DNet will be as secure as your account, assuming you chmod DNETDIR
	700 (so nobody else has access to the unix domain sockets).  From
	Home (on the Amiga), I usually RUN DNET -X , login, start the
	protocol, and leave it running all day.

	The -X option turns of security (sets all security levels to 9),
	thus allowing me to drive to the university and at any time from
	my UNIX account do a getfiles or putfiles from and to my Amiga.

	Refer to the amiga side documentation for more information.



